[doc] How to add interrupts to IP (#9370)
lowRISC/opentitan: doc/ug/getting_started_hw_design.md

* Open a Pull Request with the necessary code changes.

If it is not clear on how to proceed, feel free to file an issue requesting assistance.

## Change of Interrupts

Change of the interrupts in a HWIP needs lots of extra works.
DV environment, if exists, should have the newly introduced, or renamed ports in its TB module.
TOP module, if the module has been instantiated, should be re-generated to have new or renamed ports.
DIF SW should be regenerated too.
The PLIC test should be updated also.

### Update TOP

```console
$ make -C hw top
```

After you revise the IP `.hjson`, IP top module, IP register interface, and DV testbench `tb.sv`, you can re-generate top earlgrey module with above command.
It reads the `.hjson` file and update the interrupt signal and re-generate PLIC module if needed.

### New DIF

Unfortunately, re-generating TOP does not resolve everything.
If the interrupt name is changed or new interrupt is introduced, the DIF for the IP should be re-generated.

```console
$ ./util/make_new_dif.py --mode=regen --only=autogen

> ```

Reviewer: Could we just update the [`hw/Makefile` ](https://github.com/lowRISC/opentitan/blob/master/hw/Makefile) to call this too? Then we don't need this extra step.

Reviewer 2: yeah i tend to agree...
@timothytrippel what do you think?

Reviewer 2: oops, sorry i thought @eunchan left this comment haha.
But I totally agree we should do this.

Author: Google has its own style guide for clang-format mandated. Is there a simple way to avoid it?

Reviewer: Are you referring to the fact that `util/make_new_dif.py` invokes clang-format and by calling `util/make_new_dif.py` in the `hw/Makefile` we will a similar problem that was addressed in #8909? If so, I have an idea how we can avoid the clang-format issues, but we should probable address that in another PR. So maybe for now, let's merge this the way it is, and once merged, I will file a separate issue about invoking `util/make_new_dif.py` from  `hw/Makefile`, and then I can implement the PR to address this and fix the clang-format issues. Does that sound good?

Reviewer: Captured in #9650.

The command above updates the DIF (auto-generated part) under `sw/device/lib/dif/`.

> If DIF for the HWIP already uses the interrupt enums inside, you need to manually revise the reference.

Reviewer 3: This still needs fixing.

In most cases, the interrupt has *kDif* then HWIP name in PascalCase (e.g *SpiDevice*), *Irq*, then the interrupt name in PascalCase (e.g. *GenericRxFull*).

> Also, if DIF refers Top Plic interrupt enum, the format is *kTopEarlgreyPlicIrq*, then HWIP name in PascalCase, then the interrupt name in PascalCase.

Reviewer: nit: "Top Plic" --> "Top PLIC"?

### PLIC Unittest

> If the number of interrupts is changed, you need to revise the SW unittest manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the number of interrupts has changed, you need to revise the SW unit test manually.
```

> Open `sw/device/lib/dif/dif_rv_plic_unittest.cc` and change the `RV_PLIC_PARAM_NUM_SRC` macro to the current interrupt number.

Reviewer: (Not an actionable item, just commenting to document this / through this thought out there): would be nice (in the future) if we just parameterized this whole DIF/unittest combo and autogened the whole thing from the HJSONs.

Reviewer 3: Hear, hear!

* Open a Pull Request with the necessary code changes.

If it is not clear on how to proceed, feel free to file an issue requesting assistance.

## Change of Interrupts

Changing the interrupts of an IP block needs some extra work in addition to the RTL change.
1. If a DV environment exists, its testbench (`tb.sv`) will need the ports connected.
1. If the IP block has been instantiated in a top-level, that top-level will need re-generating to include the new ports.
1. The auto-generated DIFs will need re-generating.
1. The PLIC test should also be updated.

Item 1 is reasonably self-explanatory.
The sections below show how to do items 2-4.

### Update TOP

```console
$ make -C hw top
```

> After you revise the IP `.hjson`, IP top module, IP register interface, and DV testbench `tb.sv`, you can re-generate top-levels with above command.

Reviewer 3: Grammar nit: I think you want either "with the above command" or (better) "with the command above" (missing "the")
```suggestion
After you revise the IP `.hjson`, IP top module, IP register interface, and DV testbench `tb.sv`, you can re-generate top-levels with the command above.
```

This reads the `.hjson` file and updates the interrupt signal and re-generates the PLIC module if needed.

### New DIF

Unfortunately, re-generating TOP does not resolve everything.

> If the interrupt name is changed or new interrupt is introduced, the DIF for the IP should be re-generated.

Reviewer 3: Grammar nit:
```suggestion
If the interrupt name is changed or a new interrupt is introduced, the DIF for the IP should be re-generated.
```
